http://smartphones.findthebest.com/l/547/LG-Nexus-5
LG Nexus 5

Overview

The Nexus 5, from LG, was first available for purchase in October 2013. In the US, it's carried by AT&T Wireless, Sprint, and T-Mobile.

The phone runs on the Android operating system, which is the most widely used mobile platform on Earth. It runs on Android 4.4, which is named KitKat, and it's the newest version of Android available. It was first released on mobile phones in September, 2013.

With 4G LTE support, it supports the fastest connectivity band currently available on smartphones.

Battery Life

The Nexus 5 has an advertised talk time of 17 hours, which is significantly longer than the average of 8 hours.

In terms of battery capacity, which is the best indicator of overall battery life, it holds 2,300 mAh, an above average battery capacity for a smartphone.


Dimensions and Design

The phone's body is 137.92 mm high, 69.09 mm wide, and has a depth of 8.64 mm, 14% thinner than an average smartphone. In fact, it's thin enough to have a case and still be thinner than an average phone.

With a weight of 130 grams, its weight is about average for a smartphone.

The phone uses a touch screen keypad to capture user input, which is standard on most modern smartphones.


Processor and Memory

The Nexus 5 houses a quad core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 MSM8974AA processor. Its CPU runs at 2.26 GHz, which is much faster than average for a smartphone CPU.

2,048 MB of RAM means that it has much more memory than what's typical, giving it a significant performance boost over most phones.

Camera

It has a 1.3 megapixel front camera and a 8 megapixel primary (rear) camera. It can capture 1080p high definition video with its primary camera, which is second only to 4K in terms of recording quality.

Optical image stabilization means that this smartphone's camera is particularly good at taking videos and images even if the camera isn't perfectly still. It will actually offset slight movements of the camera lens to capture smooth images.

Storage

The base model of the Nexus 5 offers 16 GB of internal storage, making it a good choice for storing a moderate amount of media.

