http://www.notebookcheck.net/Review-Samsung-Galaxy-S4-GT-I9505-Smartphone.92829.0.html
Review Samsung Galaxy S4 GT-I9505 Smartphone

Evolutionary update of a bestseller. Samsung managed to sell more than 40 million copies of the Galaxy S III. Now the successor has been released, set to trump the flagship of 2012. The Galaxy S4 ships with a Full HD Super AMOLED display, a quad-core CPU and all kinds of gimmicky features. But is this enough to defend the top spot?
Retina display vs. Super AMOLED, industrial design vs. organic shapes, California vs. South Korea - ever since the first Galaxy S hit the shelves in 2010, the fight for the top spot in the smartphone business has been on. For the last three years, Samsung's pride has been its flagship devices, the Galaxy S, Galaxy S II and Galaxy S III, technological pinnacles within the Android ecosystem.

Now a new top model is out, the Galaxy S4. Its specifications are remarkable: A Full HD display, which makes use of the Super AMOLED technology, a Qualcomm Snapdragon 600 quad-core processor, a fast Adreno 320 graphics board, 2 GB of RAM and 16 GB of flash memory. In addition, a vast array of software novelties ranging from different display profiles (in order to generate even more brilliant imagery) to contact-free gesture controls, voice commands, eye tracking and much more have been implemented. By the middle of June, a variant with 64 GB of internal memory is supposed to be released, while Russia is rumored to be the first European country to get an octa-core variant by the end of May.

However, the competition is not sleeping, either. Apart from the eternal rival, Apple with its iPhone 5, a number of manufacturers have assembled very competitive high-quality devices as well: The HTC One has been extremely well received, not just in our review. The LG Optimus G offers great performance while being distinguished by a backside made from glass. Both the Sony Xperia Z and the Sony Xperia ZL are high-end smartphones with fast processors and Full HD displays. The Google Nexus 4 is famous for its phenomenal value-for-money-ratio. Then there is Nokia with its Windows Phone 8 flagship, the Lumia 920, a smartphone with its very own colorful design language, wireless charging functionality and nifty little details such as a touchscreen, which can be controlled with gloves as well. The HTC 8X is another Windows Phone 8 top-tier device. And then there is always Blackberry with its new Blackberry Z10 and a revamped OS fighting for a chance to get back to the top.

Some competitors stem from within Samsung, for example, the very well equipped Samsung Ativ S, a Windows Phone 8 device that has come to sell for less than 300 Euros (~$385). Last, but not least, the Samsung Galaxy S III remains on the market so that the new flagship model is condemned to offer a significant improvement in order to prevent potential customers from just choosing the more affordable predecessor. Samsung appears to have done its homework. But is this enough to keep its top spot in the market? Our detailed analysis will show.
Nothing but plastics - Samsung sticks true to the same material choice for all of its smartphones, including its high-end devices. This is not all bad, though: Next to keeping the costs down for Samsung, it also allows for more lightweight smartphones. Still, critics dismiss the haptic of such devices as inferior since they lack a first-class feel when compared to the likes of the iPhone 5 or the HTC One. Samsung tries to appease its critics (as it did with the Galaxy S III) by implementing a chrome-colored frame running around the sides. Still, the material remains what it is: Plain polycarbonate.

Whether this is to be liked or not remains a matter of taste. The same holds true for the new design choices that include numerous tiny dots on both the front and back sides of the smartphone. Our test device was a black one. Here, the dots on the rear are rather dominant due to a highly reflective surface while they appear to be less pronounced (almost like small dents) on the white version. We do not really appreciate the dominance of this effect on the backside of the Galaxy S4, particularly so since the glossy surface is not fingerprint-resistant at all. However, the rear panel can be removed completely and swapped for a different one, should this be desired. Despite the ongoing patent war between Apple and Samsung, the Galaxy S4 appears more chiseled than its predecessor, taking a step closer towards the industrial design of the iPhone 5; its curves remain more pronounced than its edges.
Talking about facts instead of taste: The Galaxy S4's build quality is excellent. Although it is crafted from plastics, the case is extremely sturdy and stable. Even when strong pressure is applied on the rear panel, no changes can be discerned on the screen itself and there are basically no clearances anywhere on the phone. The cracking of its case due to accidental drops - as it can happen with the Google Nexus 4, the LG Optimus G or the Apple iPhone 5 - is almost impossible thanks to its plastic design. In addition, the Galaxy S4 is one of the first smartphones to make use of the new Gorilla Glass 3 which is supposed to be extremely scratch-proof and next to unbreakable, as some web users have shown.

The material choice helps keep the weight down to 130 grams (~4.59 ounces), which is actually a little bit less than its predecessor which sported a screen of "just" 4.8 inches. The iPhone 5 weighs 20 grams (~0.71 ounces) less, but its 4-inch screen is considerably smaller. Thus, the Samsung Galaxy is very lightweight for its size. All of its competitors with comparably sized (often smaller) displays weigh more, especially so the Nokia Lumia 920 with a 4.5-inch display and a weight of 185 grams (~6.53 ounces).

The Apple iPhone 5 remains the thinnest one of all of the Galaxy S4 competitors, with just 7.6 millimeters (~0.30 inches). The S4 itself is almost as thin (7.9 millimeters/~0.31 inches), a feat which is only shared by the Sony Xperia Z. Most of the other devices are around 9 millimeters (~0.35 inches) thick while the Nokia뭩 Lumia 920 remains the most massive with 10.7 millimeters (~0.42 inches). The biggest surprise, however, is that Samsung managed to actually shrink the case of the Samsung Galaxy S4 a little bit when compared to its predecessor with its smaller screen. Samsung thus manages to fit an extraordinarily large display within a comparably compact case - which is exactly what one expects from a premium smartphone. The design - especially that of the backside - will definitely be a matter of taste, but stability and weight are top-notch. 

Connectivity

How we test - Connectivity

The choice of ports taken with the Galaxy S4 shouldn't come as a surprise when compared to other smartphones: The only two physical connections to the outer world are a micro USB 2.0 port at the bottom for charging or connecting the smartphone to a PC and a 3.5mm Line In/Out port at the top. Next to the latter, a second microphone can be found for noise-canceling and stereo recording purposes. On the left, the volume rocker is situated while the standby button can be found on the right.

The micro SIM slot and the micro SD slot (for cards with up to 64 GB) are both hidden under the removable rear panel. The phone's internal storage size is 16 GB of which 9.15 GB can be accessed by the user while the rest is needed for the operating system.
The Galaxy S4 makes use of the most up-to-date version of Google's Android operating system: Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean brings along a number of improvements when compared to the Galaxy S III, e.g. widgets on the lock screen, a Swype-like keyboard which allows to write not only by typing but also by moving the finger from letter to letter without ever lifting it and enhanced options of content playback on other devices and screens.

The Samsung Galaxy tablets are known to support a split screen feature, which allows two apps to be displayed simultaneously. This is now also possible on the Galaxy S4. For example, one could watch a video in one part of the screen while composing an SMS in another.

Samsung chose to stick close to the basic structure of Android. However, its TouchWiz skin does still include some major changes: Its large widgets drastically change the look of Android, strengthening the optical influence of the widgets' background images, almost resembling a magazine. Despite these alterations, one can still skim to the left and to the right to access the other home screens and the start screen can still be remodeled easily. An alternative for children, the elderly or just anybody who prefers a simpler appearance might be the "easy mode" which can be accessed from the settings menu and which is meant to help people navigate their phone with more ease through the use of larger symbols and pictograms.

Options
Even stock Android is already so full of different settings that it can at times be hard not to feel overwhelmed. Samsung packs even more options into the Galaxy S4, but at least sorts these into four distinct categories, which helps with staying on top of things.

It is also possible to activate a silent mode that suppresses certain kinds of notifications during certain timeframes. One might for example want to silence all notifications about incoming calls between 12pm and 4am, with the exception of some hand-selected contacts. Then there is also a safety assistant, which can be activated by pressing both volume buttons at the same time. Apart from taking pictures with the cameras, it also informs a number of pre-selected emergency contact persons that you are in need of help.
Cameras
No high-end smartphone is complete without a decent camera - or, better, two. The Galaxy S4 utilizes a 13-megapixel rear camera with a maximum resolution of 4128x3096 pixels resulting in a 4:3 aspect ratio. Commonly, a somewhat lower resolution of 4128x2322 pixels is chosen, matching the 16:9 aspect ratio of the screen. The sensor is manufactured by Sony; it offers an aperture of f/2.2 and a focal length of 31 millimeters. This is 5 millimeters more than the focal length of its predecessor, resulting in a slightly protruding camera. Of course, the camera system includes autofocus, an LED flash and a 4x digital zoom. The front camera is an in-house Samsung model capable of reaching a Full HD resolution of 1920x1080 pixels.

The camera of the Galaxy S4 is best suited for delivering great image quality in bright daylight, while both the HTC One and the Nokia Lumia 920 are optimized for producing great photos in low-light situations such as in bars and discos. A direct comparison with our reference DSLR camera reveals a noticeable blue tint within Samsung's pictures. The resulting photos are a little bit over-sharpened with some weak fringing in the corners. Still, these are just details. Overall, this is one of the best smartphone cameras, actually taking pictures with a higher resolution than our digital single lens reflex camera while offering tons of options. The 2-megapixel front camera, on the other hand, yields somewhat grainy and lifeless photos, but its image quality is more than sufficient for its main application, video calls.

Camera app and settings
Users of a Samsung Galaxy Camera will immediately feel at home in the Galaxy S4's camera app. At the top of the screen, all of the most important settings can be found. On the right, the trigger and the mode-changing button is located while all the effects (including live preview functionality) are situated below. All of this can be used quickly and intuitively while still opening up numerous possibilities: Samsung offers twelve different imaging modes, allowing the user to cut some part out of the picture for example, or put himself in there as well with the help of the front camera. In addition to dozens of effects (like vignettes or a cartoon feel), there are also continuous shooting modes, HDR images, panorama features, animated GIFs, photos which include a short sound file and more.
Speech quality
It is easy to forget that the Samsung Galaxy S4 can also be used as just a mobile phone. Speech quality is very good: The person at the other end of the line can hear everything very clearly and without any disruptions. Sound on our end was a little bit duller, but this may have been due to the caller's landline phone. The phone's maximum volume is more than sufficient as well - unless one is using the speakers. It would not have hurt for them to be a bit louder.

Accessories
As should be expected from every high-end smartphone, the Galaxy S4 ships at least with a power adapter, a micro USB cable and a quick start guide. This is not much, but there are a large variety of things that can be bought separately.

The S-View Cover (~29 Euros/~$37) reminds us of the good old times when flip phones with two screens prevailed. The smartphone recognizes whether the cover is closed or open, displaying all-important information within a small viewing window in the S-View Cover. Once the cover is opened, the usual lock screen appears. Samsung also offers a special cover for inductive (wireless) charging, quite like the Nokia Lumia 920. Cover and charging station together cost around 79 Euros (~101). The more traditional Flip Cover and Cover+ (each ~19 Euros/~$24) are available in many vibrant colors, and there is also a separate charging station with another spare battery for 39 Euros (~$50).

Two unusual accessories: Samsung also sells a heart frequency monitor (~79 Euros/~$101) and a personal scale (~69 Euros/~$89) which can be connected to the smartphone, resulting - in combination with the S Health app - in a virtual personal fitness trainer.

Warranty
As always, Samsung offers 24 months of warranty based on a bring-in service so that the device has to be sent to a Samsung service partner. There are no warranty extension programs for Samsung smartphones.
Display in contrast to the screen of the Galaxy S III with its 1280x720 pixels, the new generation offers a Full HD Super AMOLED display with 1920x1080 pixels - a better-than-retina pixel density of 441 pixels per inch (the iPhone 5 sports "merely" 326 pixels per inch). Of course, on a 5-inch display the human eye cannot really make out the difference between these densities any more.

Due to the organic nature of the LEDs, there are some differences in the efficiency of the three basic colors blue, red and green from which the screen is assembled. In order to compensate for this effect, Samsung has chosen different sizes for the green, blue and red dots while arranging them in a pattern of diamonds (blue and red) and ovals (green) - something Samsung calls "Diamond Pixels".

Samsung's OLED displays tend to fall behind in terms of brightness when compared to its LCD competitors. This does not change with the Galaxy S4: Its average brightness of 300.6 cd/m? is still less than what most LCD displays offer.
Subjectively, image rendition is not only extremely colorful, but also extremely sharp due to the high resolution and pixel density of the Galaxy S4. Its contrast and its deep black levels are extraordinary, with a contrast ratio of 2478:1 and great black levels of 0.119 cd/m?. None of its competitors can compete with these values.

Samsung offers four distinct display modes, as is known from TVs: Contrast and color saturation are changed in a manner that allows them to fit the screen content - or simply the user's taste. Alternatively, one can choose to let the system decide instead. The four modes are:

        Dynamic: Very high color saturation

        Standard: Normal saturation and contrast

        Professional Photo: Color reproduction as natural as possible

        Video: Decreased color saturation

We are examining the screen in all four modes using the CalMAN software and a colorimeter. The resulting screenshots can be found below.

The "dynamic" mode tends to overemphasize all colors; "video" comes closest to the objective ideal, including its grayscale rendering. In the "dynamic" mode, on the other hand, grays tend to come with a (barely) noticeable greenish tint. Still, grayscale reproduction works rather well, remaining almost lifelike in all modes on the Galaxy S4.

Since even today, some scenes in Hollywood movies are taken with a smartphone camera - which only get better over time - it may be useful for professionals to see how professional material taken in the sRGB color space or even Adobe's RGB color space is rendered on the screen. The "professional photo" mode is actually called AdobeRGB in some countries, emphasizing Samsung's claim that the Galaxy S4 is capable of covering the Adobe RGB color space (which is much larger than the sRGB color space). We are putting this statement to the test using the color checker of the CalMAN software. And indeed, with an average Delta E of just 2.78, the Galaxy S4 seems to be well suited for Adobe RGB while the sRGB color deviations were considerably larger.

So, which color mode should you choose? If you prefer strong colors, "dynamic" might be a good choice, especially since it fits the colorful interface Samsung has decided to implement in the Galaxy S4. The most natural color reproduction can be reached with the "video" mode while the other two come to lie somewhere in between. It might be best to just try out all the different options in order to decide which one to choose.
Even outdoors, you will be happy with your Galaxy S4, at least on cloudy days: The boosted maximum brightness (in comparison to its predecessor) and its extraordinary contrast levels make it usable if the display brightness is turned way up. It takes direct sunlight to really bring the Galaxy S4 to its knees, making it strenuous to decipher the screen. Luckily, the display is not as reflective as we feared, so that the Samsung Galaxy S4 ends up being usable outdoors.

Viewing angle stability is nothing short of perfect: Both horizontal and vertical tilting does nothing to diminish contrast or brightness (even at extremely narrow angles), resulting in basically no quality loss at all.
Performance Of course, a high-end smartphone has to deliver high-end performance. Thus, the Galaxy S4 ships with the proven SoC Qualcomm Snapdragon 600. The same quad-core CPU is used in the HTC One as well, but clocked at 1.7 GHz instead of Samsung's 1.9 GHz. The GPU is an Adreno 320 with two cores and a clock speed of 450 GHz, accompanied by 2 GB of RAM and 16 GB of flash memory. An octa-core Galaxy S4 has been announced, but no availability date for Europe has been released yet.

However, the quad-core processor within the Snapdragon 600 SoC is already more than sufficient to catapult the Galaxy S4 to the top spot of nearly all of our CPU and system performance smartphone ratings. The difference to its predecessor, the Galaxy S III, is tremendous: At least 34% and up to 82%. This helps to further corroborate the impression that both the operating system as well as all apps are running extremely smoothly, staying responsive at all times.
Battery Life
The Galaxy S4 employs an enormous 9.88 Wh Li-Ion battery that beats that of the predecessor (the Galaxy S III) by approximately 2 Wh and that of the HTC One by 1 Wh. Is this enough to guarantee great battery life?

Not quite. The strong battery was likely installed in order to offset the increased display size and performance. Under full load, the Galaxy S4 dies half an hour earlier than its predecessor does while its battery life during our Wi-Fi browsing test was a bit better than the Galaxy S III at 8:53 hours. This is on par with most other smartphones (and with reports on the web of 8 to 9 hours of continuous usage), but less than what the HTC One has to offer. If used less intensively, around two days can be reached before the smartphone has to be recharged.

Thus, the Galaxy S4's battery life is just average. One huge advantage is the possibility to replace the battery, taking along a spare pack for longer journeys - something that just cannot be done with the HTC One.
Verdict Who has come up with the figure of speech that it's lonely at the top, anyway? There are numerous promising high-end smartphones, and not all of them are made by Apple or Samsung. Now, the Galaxy S4 has to fend off the HTC One, the Nokia Lumia 920 and the Sony Xperia Z. However, Samsung is off to a good start: When compared to its predecessor, the Galaxy S4 has been improved significantly in almost all relevant fields.

Superficially, not much has changed. The Samsung Galaxy S4 takes an evolutionary approach, staying true to its time-honored tradition of using plastics. Despite excellent workmanship, the inner values seem to be more important to Samsung. Almost all possible means of communicating with the web or other devices have been thought of and operation by the user is possible via gestures, touch, speech, eyes and facial recognition. In addition, while the screen might not be the brightest in its class, the razor-sharp Full HD Super AMOLED display is impressive.

The rear camera is capable of taking good pictures with an extremely high resolution. The smartphone accessories are well thought out and the superb performance of Galaxy S4 should be more than sufficient for the next few years. Then there is the outstanding TouchWiz skin, which not only looks beautiful, but runs quite smoothly as well. Samsung also encloses numerous useful apps.

Despite of all this enthusiasm, some reason for criticism remains. All this preinstalled bloatware is too much for such an expensive device. In addition, the countless options and modes of operation may be too confusing for some users. After all, the quick access toolbar already contains 20 toggles! While the battery can be removed (enabling use of a spare battery while traveling), battery life itself is nothing to write home about. Then again, our test results do not corroborate the complaints of some users that can be found on the web.

Despite the fact that Samsung has unmistakably delivered what it had promised - an outstanding high-end smartphone - there is no denying that the gap between Samsung and its competitors has narrowed: Full HD displays have been presented by other manufacturers before and most of the new features are gimmicks, which work well, just not always and in all apps. In addition, the HTC One beats the Galaxy S4 both haptically and with respect to audio quality - Samsung's new flagship just is not that innovative.

Nevertheless, it is easily justifiable to be every bit as impressed by Samsung's new Galaxy S device as by its predecessors because the Galaxy S4 is something like a giant Swiss army knife. Ranging from the remote control for a Smart TV and a fitness coach to a travel guide, the Galaxy S4 is capable of replacing numerous other devices and services that we use in our daily lives. Even after months of use, it will surely still be full of surprises due to its incredible variety of operating modes and settings.


